---
layout: post
title: "Introducing CodeHive"
category: codehive
---

As a programmer, I'm constantly required to learn new things. Whether it's a new programming language, a library or new solutions to old problems. Learning new things isn't always easy.

Like many programmers, I owe much of my knowledge to those great folks who have openly shared their knowledge on the Internet. If it wasn't for them, I wouldn't be where I am today.

There are many places where great folks hang out online and share their wisdom. On somedays I visit these sites frequently to learn new things or find solutions to problems I may be tackling.

More often than not, I consume more knowledge than sharing my knowledge.

When I became aware of this, I wanted to change my habits and help others solve the problems that they were running into. So I began contributing as much as I could to the sites I was visiting. I answered questions, I posted things I was learning for others to see, I asked for feedback and made suggestions.

After a while of trying to be helpful I noticed patterns that would restrict me from helping others and restrict folks from getting the help they are seeking.

Some of these patterns are:
- 1337 trolls don't like how you've phrased your questions so they'll give it a negative score. Discouraging you from asking any more questions.
- The focus of the site is to be a portfolio and folks will favorite your work but aren't willing to provide feedback.
- You're a noob without an authoritative voice or score so you won't get any help.

These sites are really great resources and I continue to contribute to and visit these sites. But I wanted a place where I, as programmer &mdash; who is constantly learning new things &mdash; could go to ask questions and get helpful feedback and help others gain new skills.

For this reason, my partner, Christopher and I built CodeHive.

I once heard the quote:

> The expert in anything was once a beginner.

As a programmer, this is a truth we face all the time. Although I may have been in the programming game for a long time, there will always be new languages, libraries, frameworks and techniques. Meaning I will be a noob over and over again in something.

CodeHive is a place where programmers of all skill sets can come to ask questions and share a problem that they are currently facing.

To do this, we've made asking questions and providing feedback the main focus of CodeHive.

Do you have a programming question you've been trying to find a solution for? Head on over to <a href="https://www.codehive.io">CodeHive</a> and ask it.

Or perhaps you've got the answer to [this problem I'm trying to figure out](https://www.codehive.io/michaellee/boards/WgrpZOk). Head on over and see if you can provide any feedback.

We would love to get any feedback by leaving a comment below or hit us up at <a href="mailto:hello@codehive.io">hello@codehive.io</a>.

By the way, share the Boards you create in the comments below or on Twitter with the hashtag #codehive so I and others can provide feedback :)
