---
layout: post
title: "The long run"
category: "life"
date: 2015-10-31 11:00:00
---

I wonder how many crafts will be lost because there is a lack of willing successors.

This is something that has been on my mind lately.

Growing up in an immigrant family, I grew up watching my parents working long hours in their business to provide us, their children with a good life. I remember my father, telling me often that, I should get a college education and take a different route than he did. To not start a business but to work for a company, get promotions and provide stability for my family.

It is ironic though, although I've gone to college, worked in a handful of companies, lived the so called "stable life". What seems to interest me these days is running my own business successful business.

I've tried my hand at a few businesses. In the past I've been a partner in a photography business, I built and sold an Instagram photo printing company, my wife and I run a paper goods company.

All the businesses are different in the market they serve, but the common factor in all of them were, that I didn't think of the business as something that I would be doing in the long run. I'm sure no one thinks of this when they first start a business but my mentality in all these businesses have been to try out an idea and see if it works &mdash; makes a few dollars.

My mentality has never been to build a sustainable, long running business that would stand the test of time and provide the livelihood of my family.

As a programmer, the glitz and glamour of a startup, raising funds and selling companies for an excessive amount in a very short amount of time is nothing out of the ordinary. This is probably what has blinded me in thinking I should take the short sprint like approach to businesses.

Which takes me back to my first thought, how many crafts will be lost due to the lack of willing successors?

As, my family grows and as I grow older, thoughts about legacy crosses my mind &mdash; what I will leave behind for my family and my family's families.

